h3. Day one

We arrived in Nairobi on Monday morning after a good but tiring overnight flight from Heathrow. After a painfully slow queue to get our visas we were taken to the beautiful Nairobi Serena Hotel for a day's rest before starting our safari the following day. We did absolutely nothing all day, just lounged around in our dressing gowns, ordered room service and drank champagne. Bliss!

h3. Day two

After a 6.30am start and a six hour drive we arrived at Samburu National Reserve. Before even entering the reserve a herd of giraffe crossed the road in front of us. Just one of the fantastic sights that was to come. 

We arrived at Samburu Serena Lodge and had a wonderful lunch. The food throughout the whole holiday was amazing! The lodge was fabulous. Our room overlooked what should have been a river but sadly Kenya was going through a severe drought and the whole of Samburu was very dry. There was still plenty of wildlife to be seen from our room including Sykes monkeys, baboons, buffalo and bats! There were two resident warthogs at the lodge that were very cute – if cute is the right word to describe warthogs (Lorna thinks so – they were one of her favourite animals).

That afternoon we went on our first game drive. We saw so many animals (or what we thought was a lot until we arrived at Masai Mara later in the week). Amongst the animals we saw were Grevy's zebra, Reticulated giraffe, dik diks (another favourite), impala, generuks, elephants, bufallo, donkeys (!), oryx, leopards and a cheetah.

h3. Day three 

Our second day at Samburu. Our first game drive of the day was at 6.30am. As our brilliant driver, Christopher, told us, this week was safari the next week was holiday. This drive was the first time we saw lions! They were in a group huddled under the shade of a tree. They were completely unphased by our, and quite a few other people's, presence.

Before the afternoon game drive we visited the Samburu tribe not far from the lodge. We danced. Sort of. They were very welcoming and showed us round their houses, the village and the pre-school, where the children recited their alphabet for us and sang a great song about a crocodile.

h3. Day four

A lie in. We left Samburu at 8am to travel to Mount Kenya Reserve – a mere four hour drive. Kenya's roads were, quite often, barely roads which made for quite exciting journeys. We still managed to nap whilst our bodies were being violently shaken all over the place. Christopher was definitely an aspiring rally driver.

We arrived at Mountain Lodge for lunch – more fantastic food, and despite being quite a way off the ground we were joined by monkeys who sat outside on the windowsills looking for a way in, or a sympathetic tourist. 

Mountain Lodge was a complete contrast to Samburu, lush and covered in green vegetation. It was relatively cool compared to Samburu which was a welcome reprieve. It definitely wasn't cold but even so, the hot water bottles that were put in our bed that night were very welcome.

After lunch we went for a guided walk in the forest. We saw some colobus monkeys but not very much else animal wise. It might have been for the best, we really didn't want to see the tribes person have to use the automatic rifle he was carrying. Very unexpectedly and quire amusingly, we came to a bit of a clearing where afternoon tea was waiting for us. There's never a wrong time for tea and cake.

Our room at Mountain Lodge overlooked a natural watering hole. We were able to sit on our balcony and watch the animals come and go. This was absolutely fantastic. We were told to keep our doors and windows shut when we were not in our rooms because the naughty monkeys would get in. Someone had clearly forgotten this and we helplessly watched as one monkey squeezed in through an open window and liberated a bottle of perfume.

h3. Day five

We left Mountain Lodge after breakfast and headed for Lake Nakuru Reserve. The lake itself was also suffering from the lack of rain and was depleted. Many of the flamingos that create the famous pink spectacle covering the lake had gone elsewhere. However, there were still plenty around as well as many other types of birds – including the massive maribu stalk. It was huge! From a distance we thought it was a person.

Lake Nakuru Reserve was the where we saw white rhinos for the first time. There were a lot of baboons, which are actually quite scary creatures and the sight of them fighting over an unidentifiable animal's carcass turned the stomach rather. 

Our hotel here overlooked the lake. As night fell we watched a lightening storm in the distance from the hotel bar.

h3. Day six

On route to the Masai Mara we stopped at Lake Naivasha for a motor boat ride. Hippos! Loads of hippos! It was brilliant to see the large family groups that lived in and around the lake. Fish eagles waiting in trees swept down and snatched fish thrown into the lake by the guides. We attempted to photograph this but only managed to catch the splash of water as the eagle grabbed and flew off with the fish.

The lodge at the Masai Mara was another fantastic hotel – probably our favourite. Our pod, tardis-like room had a floor to ceiling view of the plains of the Masai Mara – we could indeed see herds of wildebeest sweeping majestically across the plains...

The Masai Mara was where we got to see the largest number of animals.

h3. Day seven

Maybe our earliest start to the day yet. But we were headed out on a hot air balloon ride over the Masai Mara so we really didn't mind. Unfortunately, after watching them trying to inflate the balloon for about an hour the flight was cancelled due to too much wind. We were very disappointed and returned to our hotel where we could see all the other balloons that had managed to get off the ground from other areas of the Masai Mara.

Anyway, it was to work out for the best. As it was still early, we were taken to have a champagne breakfast near a hippo pool and then went on a morning game drive. During this drive we were lucky to see wildebeest crossing a river on mass trying to avoid the crocodiles. Quite a spectacle. Everyone was on tenterhooks willing them to make it across safe. A couple of the crocs did get their breakfast.

That evening we were told that there was space in the balloon for the ride the next morning. This would leave us less time to return to Nairobi to make transfers but not surprisingly Christopher said he was happy to put his foot down.

h3. Day 8

The balloon ride was spectacular. It was an amazing feeling floating over the Masai Mara and we weren't flying very high so you could see lots of animals very clearly. The landing was a little bumpy as we were forced to come down in an area of large ant hills. It was really good fun.

To our surprise we were taken for another champagne breakfast overlooking the hippo pool, but we were under Christopher's strict instructions not to hang about. So we downed our champagne, scoffed some breakfast and headed back to the minibus for the journey back to Nairobi. It was a wonderful end to a wonderful week.

We arrived back at Nairobi and had a night there before getting a flight to Zanzibar the following morning.

h3. Zanzibar

On Tuesday morning, we arrived at Zanzibar's small airport and transferred to our hotel, the Neptune Pwani Beach on the north east coast of the island. Our room was nice and spacious and had a lovely sea view.

Most of our days in Zanzibar consisted of not doing very much at all, as indeed was the plan. The hotel was right on the beach and at certain times of the day you could walk out to sea quite a way and sit on one of the sand banks. Unfortunately, doing this led to both of us getting sunburnt and having to hide under loose fitting, long sleeved clothes for the next couple of days!

On the Thursday we went on a trip called Safari Blue, which was a wonderful day out sailing on a Dhow. We visited a sandbank way out to sea, where we went swimming in the beautiful, warm water and drank Zanzibar coca cola (coconut milk). We sailed out to a coral reef and went snorkelling. Well Steve did, Lorna watched from the boat (due to fear of being eaten by sharks - not that there were any). There were so many varieties of beautiful, colourful fish. It was really fantastic. We then sailed to an island and had a very impressive seafood B.B.Q. (Lorna had rice and bread). After lunch we wandered round the island before heading back.

Friday, Saturday, Sunday, very tiring - lazing by the pool, three large meals a day, walks along the beach, reading, enjoying the all inclusive bar and the comfy day beds....We struggled through it.

On the Monday we checked out of our hotel and were taken on a tour of Stone Town, the capital of Zanzibar. We wandered through the narrow, car free streets, through the bustling market - avoiding the meat and fish market for Lorna's benefit. It was a really interesting place that we'd have loved to have spent more time in.

We visited the Anglican Church which the Guide was very keen to tell us he'd not long ago shown the Archbishop of Canterbury around. We also visited a slave chamber which was shocking and sad to see the very small and dark conditions so many people were kept in. It felt really clostrophbic with three of us in there, when at times there would have been over 75 people in that one space. 

In the afternoon we visited a spice farm and saw many spices in their natural form and were told about their various uses other than ending up in our store cupboards. Obviously Lorna was sniffing too loudly after contracting the inevitable holiday cold and was handed a bit of cinnamon root that smelled just like Vicks vapo rub. It did the trick. 

Among the crops we saw were cocoa, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, coffee, lemon grass and vanilla. It was actually very interesting. After buying a lovely selection of spices to take home we were lucky enough to be given stylish hats made out of banana leaves whilst the farm workers practised their English on us - 'lovely jubbly', 'cockney geezer', 'Manchester United', 'cheep as chips'. We smiled politely.

Afterwards, we were dropped at the airport and started our journey home. The flights were fine, despite Steve's TV not working again and we arrived back at Heathrow ahead of schedule on the Tuesday morning. We got the train to Paddington and had time for a large full English breakfast (we were in the habit) before getting the train back to Bristol. We then had only five minutes to wait before getting the local train to Parson Street, a five minute walk from our front door. It was a beautiful sunny day and despite having a really wonderful time it felt lovely to be nearly home (even though we were walking the streets of Bedminster). We were greeted by slightly put out kittens that soon forgave us for abandoning them and we made the most of being able to finally cuddle the animals.
